Python was developed by Guido van Rossum & released on Feb 20, 1991.


What is python ? What are the benefits of using python?

Ans. Python is a high-level, Interpreted, general-purpose programming language. Being a general purpose language, It can be used to build almost any type of application with the right tools and libraries. Python supports objects, modules, threads, exception-handling & automatic memory management.

Benefits : Completely open-source, supports third-party packages and encourages code reuse.


What is a dynamically typed language ? 

Ans.  In a strongly typed language, such as python, “1” + 2 will result in a type error but in a weakly typed language, such as javascript, will simply output 12 as a result.

Static - data types are checked before execution
Dynamic - data types are checked during execution

SInce python is an interpreted language, it executes each statement line by line and thus type-checking is done during execution. Hence python is a dynamically typed language.


What is an Interpreted Language ? 

Ans. An interpreted language executes its statements line by line.

Examples : Python, Javascript, Ruby PHP and R are the prime examples for an interpreted language.


What is PEP 8 ? 

Ans. PEP stands for Python Enhancement Proposal. A PEP is an official design document providing information to the python community. Apparently contributing to the Python open-source community requires you to follow the guidelines sincerely and strictly.


What are lists and tuples ? 

Ans. Lists and Tuples are sequence data types that can store collection of objects in python

 What are the common built-in data types in python ? 

Ans. There are several built-in data types in python. They are :

None type - None
Numeric type - int, float, complex and bool
Sequence type - lists, tuples and range 
Text type - str
Binary type - byte
Mapping type - dict 
Set type - supports add() and remove()

      7.    What is pass in Python ? 

Ans. The pass is a keyword. Generally used for filling up the empty block of code which may execute during the runtime but yet to be written.


What are modules and packages in python ?

Ans.  Python modules and python packages have two different mechanisms that allow modular programming. Modularizing has several advantages : 

Simplicity 
Reusability
Maintainability 
Scoping

Module : Module is simply a file having .py extension and having set of functions, class and variable defined and They can be imported and initialized once using import statement

Package : As modules helps avoiding clashes between global variable names. In similar manner, Packages helps avoiding clashes between modules names.
 

What is scope in python ? 

Ans.  Every object in python functions within a scope. A scope is a block of code where object in python remains relevant. 

Local scope : local objects available in the current function
Global scope : objects available throughout the code execution
Module-level scope : global objects of the current module is accessible in the program.

 What are global, private and protected attributes in python ?

Ans. Attributes are divided into following :
Global attributes are public attributes, 
private attributes are attributes which have double underscore prefixed to their identifier eg. __abc. They cannot be accessed or modified directly from outside directly and 
protected attributes are the attributes which have double underscore prefixed to their identifier eg: __def. They can be accessed or modified from outside the class.

What is the use of self in python ? 

Ans. Self keyword is used to access attributes and methods of the class in python. Self is used to represent instance of the class

What is __init__ ?

Ans. __init__ is a contructor in python. Which is automatically called to allocated memory when a new object/instance is created.

What is break, continue and pass in python ? 

Ans. They are :
break : The break statement terminates the loop immediately.
continue : continue terminates the current iteration of the statement and skips the rest of the code in the iteration and control flows to the next iteration of the loop
pass : pass is the keyword which is used to fill the empty block of code 

What are unit tests in python ?

Ans. Testing different components of software separately.

What is slicing in python ? 

Ans. Slicing means [start : stop : step]

start is the starting index where the slicing of tuple of list begins
stop is the ending index
step is the number of stes to jump

Note : default value of start is 0 and stop is number of items and step is 1.
Slicing can be done on strings, tuples, lists and arrays.

Eg: numbers = [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
print(numbers[1])


